.TH "modjpeg" 1.0.1 "May 27, 2018" "modjpeg"
.SH NAME
modjpeg
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tool for JPEG masking and composition in the DCT domain. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
modjpeg [options]
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB\-\-input\fR, \fB\-i\fR file
.IP
Path to the image to be modified. The image needs to be a JPEG image.
.HP
\fB\-\-ouput\fR, \fB\-o\fR file
.IP
Path to a file to store the modified image in. The image will be a JPEG image.
.HP
\fB\-\-dropon\fR, \fB\-d\fR file[,mask]
.IP
Path to the image that should be used as dropon. The path to the mask is optional.
The dropon and the mask have to be a JPEG and of the same dimension. If PNG support
is compiled in, the dropon can also be a PNG with or without alpha channel.
.HP
\fB\-\-position\fR, \fB\-p\fR [t|b][c][l|r]
.IP
The position of the dropon. t = top, b = bottom, l = left, r = right, c = center. Default: center
.HP
\fB\-\-offset\fR, \fB\-m\fR [horizontal],[vertical]
.IP
The offset to the given position in pixels. Default: 0,0
.HP
\fB\-\-luminance\fR, \fB\-y\fR value
.IP
Changes the brightness of the image according to the value. Use a negative value
to darken the image, and a positive value to brighten the image.
.HP
\fB\-\-tintblue\fR, \fB\-b\fR value
.IP
Color the image. Use a negative value to tint the image yellow, and use a positive
value to tint the image blue.
.HP
\fB\-\-tintred\fR, \fB\-r\fR value
.IP
Color the image. Use a negative value to tint the image green, and use a positive
value to tint the image red.
.HP
\fB\-\-pixelate\fR, \fB\-x\fR
.IP
Pixelate the image into 8x8 blocks.
.HP
\fB\-\-grayscale\fR, \fB\-g\fR
.IP
Reduce the image to grayscale.
.HP
\fB\-\-optimize\fR, \fB\-O\fR
.IP
Optimize the Huffman tables when storing the output image.
.HP
\fB\-\-progressive\fR, \fB\-P\fR
.IP
Store the output image in progressive mode.
.HP
\fB\-\-arithmetric\fR, \fB\-A\fR
.IP
Use arithmetric coding instead of Huffman coding.
.SH EXAMPLES
Place a logo in the top right corner:
.PP
modjpeg \fB\-\-input\fR in.jpg \fB\-\-position\fR tr \fB\-\-dropon\fR logo.jpg \fB\-\-output\fR out.jpg
.PP
Pixelate the image and then place a logo in the top right corner:
.PP
modjpeg \fB\-\-input\fR in.jpg \fB\-\-pixelate\fR \fB\-\-position\fR tr \fB\-\-dropon\fR logo.jpg \fB\-\-output\fR out.jpg
.PP
Place a logo in the top right corner and then pixelate the image (including the logo):
.PP
modjpeg \fB\-\-input\fR in.jpg \fB\-\-position\fR tr \fB\-\-dropon\fR logo.jpg \fB\-\-pixelate\fR \fB\-\-output\fR out.jpg
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR libmodjpeg (3),
.BR cjpeg (1),
.BR djpeg (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
modjpeg (c) 2006+ Ingo Oppermann.
All rights reserved.